# PWM-fast

<p align="justify">In electronics, modulation is the application of a controlling effect on a waveform, and PWM or Pulse Width Modulation is the controlling of the average power delivered by an electrical signal to a load by transmitting the signal as a series of square-wave pulses as opposed to a signal of fixed voltage value. Through this method a digital power source, such as the pins of a microcontroller, which can usually only output either 0 or 5 V can be used to generate analog voltage values between 0 and VCC. PWM is most commonly used to control the speed of motors and can be used for other applications where analog voltages are required, such as controlling the brightness of an LED.</p>

<p align="justify">A PWM signal generated by the ATmega32A is a square-wave signal with a peak voltage of VCC. For one cycle, the time period where the signal is at VCC or HIGH is called the "On" time while the time period the signal is at 0 V is called the "Off" time. The ratio of the "On" time to the total time period of the PWM signal (the time period of the signal being the sum of the On time and Off time) is called the Duty Cycle. By controlling the duty cycle of the signal, the average voltage of the PWM signal can be controlled thus providing an analog output from a digital source. The frequency of a PWM signal represents the number of cycles per second of the signal. The higher the frequency, the higher the number of square wave pulses in the PWM signal during a single second.</p>

<p align="justify">The ATmega32A uses its inbuilt timer/counter units to generate PWM signals. The 3 timer/counter units T0, T1 and T2 each have different operating modes and some of these modes are specifically for the generation of PWM signals. There are only a few pins on the microcontroller that are used to output PWM signals; these are the OC0 pin for the output of PWM signals generated by Timer/Counter0, OC1A and OC1B for PWM signals generated by Timer/Counter1 and OC2 for PWM signals generated by Timer/Counter2. There are different PWM generation modes as well. These are Fast PWM mode, Phase correct PWM mode and Phase and Frequency correct PWM mode. Each of these modes have different applications and strengths.</p>

<p align="justify"></p>
